# ChatGPT-augmented
Augmented Stories: Enhancing Korean Emotion Detection through ChatGPT Text Generation

Sanghyub John Lee , Yu-mi Yi , and Kiseong Lee 

ABSTRACT - The innate human fascination with fictional stories, driven by psychological and evolutionary underpinnings, enriches the imagination and fosters growth and social cohesion. This study leverages these creative, empathy-enhancing, and indirect experience attributes to enhance the capability of artificial intelligence models in emotion detection. The addressed challenge is the limited sample size in natural language processing tasks, particularly pronounced in scenarios with scarce or low-quality target domain data. The study adopts a text data augmentation strategy, an intuitive approach that augments training data to capture data invariance and enlarge the sample size to overcome this. The process becomes complex when only emotion words from dictionaries are available without example sentences. Using the chat generative pretraining transformer (ChatGPT), an advanced large-scale language model, the research proposes a novel text data augmentation approach, emphasizing Korean emotion data. By augmenting the data over twenty-fold, the study applies a classification method centered on 24 emotions and Ekman’s six emotion categories. The performance is gauged using a Korean emotion data set comprising words, meanings, and examples, revealing an improvement from 41% to 73% with ChatGPT-generated sentences. Furthermore, 164,421 sentences are generated to balance the samples, yielding 480,000 sentences and increasing the balanced model’s performance to 75%. By integrating 24 Korean emotions into Ekman’s six categories and a neutral emotion, performance improved to 82%. This study underscores the potential to broaden the applicability of Korean emotion data sets in AI, fostering the evolution of diverse emotion detection models and applications.
INDEX TERMS - Text data augmentation, Korean emotion data set, ChatGPT sentence generation, XLM-RoBERTa transformer model
